---
layout: post
title: Day 7 
date: '2017-04-14 22:00:00 +0800'
thumbnail: >-
  https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2820/33432988863_3fc193549f_z_d.jpg
cover_image: >-
  https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4194/34086468902_f4b7836d99_k_d.jpg
categories: indonesia
published: false 
---

Yolo in the morning, Dom just try a bit then off we go no thinking twice, he say similar to electric bike. Zoom everywhere no helmet, 30-35 km/h. 

The area which we're staying in is the trendy neighbourhood in Bali, Canggu. Crowd is the younger angmohs with all skinny bods hahah

Tried the most popular breakfast cafe in Canggu, Crate. Loved the beach vibes, super chill but gets rather crowded so you feel impelled to leave when you're done. Canggu has many cafes selling breakfast bowls (similar to Nalu Bowls), think the whole healthy eating thing is very in now.

Continued on to sooth our tired bodies with a 2 hour Balinese + Deep Tissue massage & Body Scrub & Mask at Chillax Canggu for ~$32. Super relaxing and clean before heading for lunch at Betelnut Cafe for some fusion food. After ordering our second coconut water in Bali, we realised that Indonesian coconuts are not as sweet as Thai coconuts, tasted very po4.

Headed back to chill at our place. Dom had to clean the pool with a spatula & frying pan as they didn't provide a net hahah super gross. It was a mix of weevils, crickets, mini beetles etc ewwww is right. But if we switched on the jacuzzi it's less gross hahah just don't drink the water 

Visited The Lawn after chancing upon it on IG few months back while researching Canggu area. Love love love the vibes! Very bohemian with the swaying brollies, lawn mat area. The place was everything I imagined hahah stayed till after sunset.

Had dinner at Warung Bu Mi. It was a caifan place at super reasonable prices. Popular with Budget tourists. Ate like pigs, piled on so much carbs this trip cause we always skipped lunch on long bus rides.

Decided to go out to seesee the local bar scene at Canggu. Music was good, those old school can sing along type till the live band started, they were singing their own songs, very soso so we left after awhile. The crazy angmohs were super drunk and high, it was quite a sight.
