---
layout: post
title: Day 9 
date: '2017-04-19 22:00:00 +0800'
thumbnail: >-
  https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2820/33432988863_3fc193549f_z_d.jpg
cover_image: >-
  https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4194/34086468902_f4b7836d99_k_d.jpg
categories: indonesia
published: false 
---

Started our last day right with brekkie at Monsieur Spoon, a French bakery. Super loved their croissants which was so soft on the inside, and flaky on the outside. Coffee was the best so far too :)

Had to buy aloe vera for our sore skin, & Rae managed to see a nice sports bra along the way so she whipped out her cash 💵

Went back to pack & chill at our villa for the last time and snap our last memories of the place :'(

We headed back over to Seminyak again (this time with helmets haha) to try the popular Nalu Bowls. Both of us liked it as it was icy & refreshing – great for the blisteringly hot weather. It was a bit pricey at $7 per bowl though..

We spent an hour doing foot massage at [Carla's Spa](http://spaurlhere.com/) before pigging out at Naughty Nuri's. Finally got to try out their ribs (~$13.50) in bali after missing out a few years back! It was very yummy and we loved it. The seminyak store really had a different feel from the Ubud outlet with the outdoor grill, and had a much more commercialised feel.

We picked up our bags and with a heavy heart booked a blue bird to the airport. The app was really useful and very much recommended if you're heading to Bali!

It was a great trip with many new adventures to new territories with the best company, xoxo 👫

**Extra:**

Bike petrol sold by the roadside are kept/sold in Absolut vodka bottles. The bottles are preferred by the sellers due to its exact 1L volume! Petrol is really cheap in Bali, and costs about $1 for 1L, which will be more than enough to last a 3 day trip.

Grab/Uber/Gojek is banned in Bali after conventional taxis have been complaining of dwindling incomes so there are several "no online booking" signs near touristy places.

__Review of our airbnb__

Have been looking forward to our airbnb pl since January when we booked it, it really lived up to the photos. Recommend it if you’re looking to stay in a quieter area and you’re willing to travel around with a scooter.

_Spending for the trip__

9470 Rupiah: 1SGD
Sun rises around 540am
Sun sets around 540pm
Total spent: Roughly $800, less could definitely be spent if you’re travelling more budget :>
