---
layout: post
title: Day 2 
date: '2017-04-08 22:00:00 +0800'
thumbnail: >-
  https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2820/33432988863_3fc193549f_z_d.jpg
cover_image: >-
  https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4194/34086468902_f4b7836d99_k_d.jpg
categories: indonesia
published: false 
---

Left hotel at 3.30am for Borobudur. Was worried about the weather as forecasts have been rather rainy. But we worried for nothing, amazing sunrise at Borobudur and lots of time to explore, snap shots & have a light breakfast before heading back at 8.30am. The monument was really grand, majestic, about 1,000 years old with close to 500 Buddha statues! Worthy of a UNESCO (unlike our bot gdns haha). The sunrise tour was quite expensive at ~60SGD. It is arranged by a hotel just next to the monument, Manohara Resort.

Long rides out from the city means lotsa time to catch up on sleep on mini buses too!

Because we woke up so early, 10am felt like 3pm..

Lazed around and left again for Gumuk Pasir. You can book a car for 500,000 for 12 hours (usually to 3 places). Bought daiso sleds but sand was TOO hot and somehow didn't work out, disappointed but meh.

According to Dom "it's a big junkyard where someone decided to exploit for tourism". Although were melting under the 2pm hot sun, the cute photo spots and good photos were all worth it cause nice skies!

Drove a very long, bumpy and windy road to Sri Gethuk and was underwhelmed as area was quite small. But the cooling running waters were a nice escape from the burning heat at the sand dunes.

#RachelunappropriatelydressedChen attracted all the locals as I was wearing a floral, kinda bareback jumpsuit at a waterfall lol

Went to source for good food at Warung Bu Ageng (something we've haven't be having) for dinner. Their Nasi Campur was rated as "one of the best in Yogyakarta" & it lived up to its name, was yummy! Best meal whole trip (till Bali) hahahah

Booked tomorrow's tour by Tour Jogja which we arranged via WA. Ended the night with Bintang Radler nearby our hotel.

Have to conclude tt Jogja is rather touristy & we spent SO MUCH time travelling out from the city centre but the sights made up for all of it :)
