---
layout: post
title: Day 8 
date: '2017-04-15 22:00:00 +0800'
thumbnail: >-
  https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2820/33432988863_3fc193549f_z_d.jpg
cover_image: >-
  https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4194/34086468902_f4b7836d99_k_d.jpg
categories: indonesia
published: false 
---

Headed over to Seminyak, wah scooting on busier roads super scary but we made it!

Brekkie at Sisterfields. Loved the food there, coffee was ok but not the best. Their toilets are also super pretty, clean (and conducive for shitting hahahahah).

Walked around a bit but wasn't interested in spending money so we decided to just bike along the shopping streets. Wtf wanted to go scoot around seminyak shopping area see see kena stop by police and fined $50 for not wearing helmet. Mega scam, in the end never even give us a ticket or what to say we paid it already (in case we get caught again).

Headed directly to Finns Beach Club to escape anymore big roads with scam police >:(

Spent the whole afternoon switching between our day bed, infinity pool & beach area. Got so burnt, our skins hurt the next day. But what's a beach holiday without a bit of burnt skin? 

It was a minimum spend of $100 for the day bed so we kept our budget in check ☺. Rather pricey spend but we’re on a holiday, so whatevsssss just enjoy.

**Extra:**

We changed upon a popular aussie motocycle shop called Deus Ex Machina and Dom explained that Deus Ex Machina means 'god from the machine' in greek. The term has evolved to mean a plot device whereby a seemingly unsolvable problem is suddenly and abruptly resolved by the inspired and unexpected intervention of some new event, character, ability or object. (from Wiki), thought it was cool.

Always wear your helmet in Bali when biking & avoid eye contact with police when driving past if not they'll stop you and ask you to bribe them. Standard is ~$20-25 for no helmet/proper license.
